Hey, this is Chris with the Healthy
Wealth Experience and I wanted you to be
one of the first people to know that we
have received the internet's highest
honor. The 30th annual Webbby Awards has
received our entry for science and
education with Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed
and they honored us with what's called
an honore. And so to give you an example
what that looks like, these guys receive
over 13,000 entries for this award. Um,
the people who were in the top five of
the award were people like NASA and UC
Berkeley science department. We're
talking about people who have hundreds
of years under their belt and like, you
know, millions of dollars of budget. And
we were able to compete with these
Goliaths. And we were able to show up
and show out. And I want to thank you
guys, the listeners, for supporting this
podcast because your support is what
allows us to go get these highquality
people to interview. We're super
thankful for Dr. Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed
for believing in us and letting us uh
interview him. Uh his research on cancer
and metabolic disease is the exact type
of innovationdriven education that
earned this Webby recognition. I'm
thankful to Madison uh Copta who is our
production manager and she was able to
like put this episode together. She was
able to get Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed. She
was able to get the Webbies uh notified
of this thing and she's been
communicating with them back and forth
as the things that they need. I just
want to say thank you more than anything
to you, the fans, for supporting this.
Um, I don't make any money off this
podcast. It's a labor of love for me.
Maybe someday, maybe someday, I don't
know. But right now, I just do it
because I enjoy it and I want to spread
the word about alternative ways to build
wealth and alternative ways to build
health. And that's what I'm interested
in. And I'm so proud that we were
recognized in this David versus Goliath
world of podcasting. uh many many people
that I love and admire as podcasters
have never been honored by a webbby. So
to me it's such a huge deal and I'm very
very thankful for it. And so we are
going to release the episode again.
That's what you're going to listen to is
the Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed episode. It
is wonderful. It is a very well done
episode from beginning to end. And Dr.
Thomas Seaf Freed is going to talk about
cancer in a way that you probably never
heard it before. So please enjoy the
episode and thank you again for your
support. Before
we dive in, a quick reminder. I am a
financial adviser, but I'm not your
financial adviser, at least not yet.
This show is for educational and
transformational purposes. Always
consult with your professional team
before making big moves with your health
or your wealth.
As a financial adviser, I see it all the
time, and honestly, it's a tragedy.
Families losing everything they worked
for because of one simple oversight.
It's a heartbreak for them, and frankly,
it's a massive pain in my rear end. Most
people think their legacy is set, but
without a rock-solid trust, you're just
leaving a legal nightmare for your kids.
Watching a lifetime of wealth get
swallowed by probate and taxes, that's
not a legacy, that's a burden. Don't be
this statistic. You can avoid the mess
and protect your family by calling
roseville trust today. Secure your
future and your sanity. Visit
roseville.com right now. Your legacy
deserves better than a paperwork
disaster. Hello and welcome to the
healthy wealth experience. I am your
host Chris Hall and today I am really
excited to have a guest with us today
Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed and he is going
to blow your doors off today with what
he knows about cancer and the research
of cancer and the direction that it's
headed versus direction it should be
headed. So without further ado, Dr.
Seaffrey, thank you so much for being on
the show.
>> Thank you, Chris. Nice to be here today.
>> All right, so thank you so much. So um
obviously I know a little bit about you,
but tell us a little bit about yourself
and you know kind of how you got into
this subject matter.
>> Well, uh I'm a professor here at Boston
College. I I teach general biology to
uh students that are not biology majors
uh which includes a lot of my work on
cancer as well. We integrate cancer into
a lot of the foundational principles of
biological
sciences but I also teach an advanced
course in cancer metabolism. So uh those
two kind of keep me keep me busy. And
we've been working in this uh well maybe
40 years at least but not always on
areas of developing therapies. Most of
it was on basic research. what is the
biochemical changes that you find in
cancer. But before that and parallel
with that, I was also working on the
field of epilepsy at Yale University and
I continued it here at Boston College
and we were developing mapping genes and
developing therapies for epilepsy and
those therapies for epilepsy started to
merge into ma managing therapies for
cancer and the two projects were
parallel for many years and now most of
what I do now is mostly into the the
field of cancer prevention and
management.
>> Okay. And so now you have been been very
well reviewed. Uh you've been in 150
plus peer-reviewed publications. Is that
correct?
>> Well, we have over 200 now. That was
probably 10 years ago when that came
out. So we've been publishing quite a
bit. Uh we have some new papers that
will be coming out. One just came out
yesterday on the glutamine issue,
limitation of glutamine. In
pre-clinical, we do all of our work
preclinally,
uh, which uses the most accurate models
for the for the disorder, both brain
cancer and general metastatic cancers. I
also work with many clinicians in
different different settings around the
world who want to introduce metabolic
therapy for their patients. So, so we're
working on several fronts. We're
starting a new society of metabolic
oncology which will be introducing
non-toxic
strate therapeutic strategies for
managing cancer and people. The
foundational concepts are developed here
at Boston College using these
preclinical systems so we can
troubleshoot a lot of the issues before
they go into the clinic and allow
clinicians to be more comfortable in in
doing what they do without fear that
they're going to harm their patients. So
your primary claim is that cancer is a
metabolic uh disease, not a genetic
disease. Can you kind of elaborate on
that for people who aren't familiar with
your work?
>> Yeah. Well, our work is based on the
shoulders of Otto Warberg, famous German
scientist from the last century who who
showed in the 90s with his data that
cancer cells ferment the sugar glucose
into lactic acid. And he said all cancer
cells have this common problem and it
and it resides in the mitochondrian of
the cell which is the organel that
provides the energy of the cell controls
the quiescent or differentiated state
determines when cells grow, how long
they should grow, how fast they should
grow and when they should stop growing.
In other words, they would control cells
to start growing and stop growing. And
we've learned that over the years and
that organel is is deficient. because
it's deficient. Cells no longer respect
contact inhibition. They no longer
respect the environment. They grow in a
disregulated way, which essentially is
cancer. Cancer is disregulated cell
growth. And the regulation of the cell
growth resides in the organel called the
mitochondria. And when that organel
becomes damaged or deficient in in its
ability to produce energy, a variety of
different abnormalities can happen. The
cell the cell gradually drifts into an
unregulated state. And as long as it has
fuels to drive this energy, which is a
fermentation energy, very hard to kill.
So the origin of cancer is a disruption
of normal energy metabolism and a
replacement of this energy with ancient
fermentation pathways. These are
pathways that exist in all of our cells.
And they're heirlooms of hundreds of
millions of years ago before oxygen came
into the atmosphere. And these cancer
cells are simply falling back on these
ancient pathways. And as long as the
fuels driving those pathways are
present, they become very difficult to
kill. So you can, you know, poison and
irradiate people and chop them up and do
all this kind of stuff. But all you have
to do is really pull the plug on those
two fermentable fuels and you can pretty
much manage the disease in a much more
effective way. But because people think
it's a genetic disease, including the
National Cancer Institute and most top
medical schools and most pharmaceutical
companies, you constantly are producing
therapies and drugs that are incapable
of dropping the death rate. And and the
and the beat goes on.
>> And that's why we have over 1,700 people
a day dying from cancer in the United
States, which comes out to about 70
people per hour. And the beat goes on.
And you keep hearing about all these new
breakthroughs. The only major
breakthrough was the antis-smoking
campaign from the 1990s. This is another
thing when you hear, oh, you know, we're
making so much progress. No, you're not.
You stop smoking. That was the progress.
So, uh, it became socially unacceptable
to be smoking in the in in groups of
people. So, peer pressure gradually stop
people from smoking and that dropped the
death rate significantly. Wasn't any new
drugs. Um, and they're you hear on the
news they're saying, "Oh, we made so
much progress in the development of No,
you haven't. We have 1,700 people a day
dying. Tell me where the progress is.
>> Um, you know, people, they don't know
that there's 1,700 people. 70 people an
hour are dying and they keep telling us
we're making all this progress and and
well, the we would have had a hell of a
lot more people dying if we didn't stop
smoking. So, uh, that's the big advance.
It was the anti-smoking campaign, which
is basically prevention. It wasn't any
new technology. And then you hear about
all this stuff that's just such
misinformation and such You
know, you keep hearing it on the news
every night. Oh, look at all the cancer.
Look at this drug. Look at that drug.
And and you know, we have 50% of the
people dying from the drugs that they're
treating the patients with. It's
tragedy. It's tragic. Tragic.
>> It is is incredible to me. I coach
football and um as a as a hobby and uh I
love coaching football and we had a
thing the other day where the kids were
kind of just talking about why they play
football and and it was a really cool
night but I couldn't believe how many of
the kids basically talked about a a
loved one, a parent, a friend, a
brother, a sister that had died of
cancer or had been fighting cancer. And
it was like it really truly it touches
all of us. So, so it and it is like you
know we you can't even talk to anybody
without someone saying oh yeah so and
so's got cancer now. So you had
mentioned uh the two fuels that feed
cancer or fuel cancer. Can you can you
tell us what those are?
>> Yeah well one of them is the sugar
glucose.
>> Mhm. There's clear we we were the first
to show a direct relationship in our
preclinical studies on brain cancer that
there was the higher the sugar in the
blood the glucose let's put it this way
glucose which is if you table sugar is
is part fructose which makes it sweet
and the other part is glucose. So when
you eat table sugar it's broken down in
the stomach by sucraes and you get
glucose immediately enters your
bloodstream. Um and you know you know
diabetics can have very high blood sugar
levels. That's why they take metformin
and these other kinds of drugs. But the
the bottom line is what we found is that
in these in these mice with brain
cancer, the higher the blood sugar, the
faster the tumor grew and then and if
you use various diet like water fasting
and diets and things like this, you
could lower blood sugar and the tumors
grew much much slower. Um and then
people started to make these same
findings in humans. The people with
glyopblastoomas or brain cancers. The
people that had high high blood sugar
survived the least amount whereas those
that had lower blood sugars survived
longer. And then we saw the same thing
for breast cancer, colon cancer, lung
cancer. We went down right down the
list. Pancreatic. The higher your blood
sugar, the faster the tumor grows and
the faster you die. And people knew for
years that the other fuel, glutamine,
which is an amino acid that's very
abundant in the bloodstream, is there
and the tumor is just sucking down the
glucose and the glutamine. And those two
fuels are driving the disregulated
growth of these cells. You know, it's
really interesting. And then when you
lower your blood sugar, your body starts
mobilizing fat because you're not eating
anything. And the fat uh the fat
triglycerides go into the bloodstream
and they go to your liver and your liver
kind of chops these longchain fatty
acids into water small water- soluble
molecules called ketone bodies and they
replace the sugar. So as the blood sugar
goes down the ketone bodies go up and
your brain and heart start transitioning
away from sugar to these ketone bodies.
So the nice thing about it is the tumor
cells can't use the fatty acids or
ketone bodies because the mitochondrian
is needed to burn those ketone bodies
into energy and they have a bad
mitochondria. So, so lowering blood
sugar and elevating ketones then places
the body in this new energized state
where the normal cells get healthier and
healthier and the tumor cells get weaker
and weaker. And then we come in with
very low doses of glutamine targeting
drugs because there's no diet that can
lower glutamine. It's just it's just
abundant in our system. So we can
strategically target the glutamine while
we put a choke hold on the glucose and
elevate the body over to ketones which
is the way we evolved as a species. Our
ancestors during the paleolithic period
were always in a state of ketosis
because there weren't delicateessins and
doughnut shops on every corner. I mean
you had to kill the beast and eat the
meat. Uh and and and and you needed a
lot of energy to do that and that's how
we evolved. And these tumor cells,
they're they're expecting a nice sugary
meal every night and all of a sudden you
change their whole landscape and they up
and die and and and uh you can kill
gradually destroyed tumor while making
the rest of the body healthy. We see
people that have high blood pressure,
hypertension, diabetes and cancer. And
we see doing metabolic therapy uh we see
them getting rid of the cancer along
with the diabetes, high blood pressure,
hypertension and exercise. is we throw
in the exercise which puts even more
pressure on the tumor especially when
the sugar is low and the ketones are
elevated. So you can gradually manage
this disease for all kinds. Pancreatic,
they're all the same. Cancer is one si
common disease of energy metabolism. We
can manage all the and so people say I
don't believe you. Well, why don't you
read the damn literature? Why don't you
look at the experiments that we did? You
tell me where I made a mistake,
>> right? 200 publications, right?
>> Yeah. Well, it's not all on that, but
you know, a good a good 75 or 100 are.
>> Yeah.
>> And and you tell me. I want to know.
Somebody come and tell. Nobody's been
able to tell me where where we made a
mistake. And uh the science is rock
solid. It's on a granite base. And yet
we're not using any of this stuff that I
just mentioned in the clinics.
>> There's no no clinical trial anywhere on
the planet where we're simultaneously
targeting glucose and glutamine while we
transition the body over to nutritional
ketosis. Nowhere. And yet that's the way
we're going to manage this disease
effectively everywhere. Is it It's
amazing, isn't it?
>> Yeah. It's incredible. Remember uh Dr.
Jason Fun? This is probably almost like
a decade ago was talking about reversing
type two diabetes. At the time, type two
diabetes was a, you know, like a death
sentence, if you will. There was no way
to reverse it. And then he was like,
"No, you can absolutely reverse it. We
just need to start fasting and eat a
ketogenic diet." And I mean, here we are
10 years later and people are still not
fasting. They're still not eating
ketogenic diet. And there's so many
people that are anti- ketogenic diet.
It's so crazy. Like, if you go to a
restaurant and you get a hamburger and
French fries, nobody cares. You know
what I mean? But if you get a hamburger
and you say, "Do I don't want the bun
and I don't want the French fries. I
just want the hamburger." Well, all of a
sudden, like you're some sort of weirdo.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, I go to the what
we like is ribeye steaks. You know, the
um I don't know anybody who doesn't like
a tomahawk ribeye. Well, maybe a vegan
or something like that, but you know,
you melt butter on top of it. Man, it's
unbelievable. And then you can have a
small stick of uh asparagus or a small
little bit of broccoli or something on
the side. I don't consider that a
hardship in any sense of any.
>> No, no, absolutely not.
>> You know, we we we got really good
results in in our Greek glyopblasto
study using a calorierestricted
Mediterranean diet which was salmon,
olive oil, little avocado, sardines, and
this kind of stuff. And these people
were doing really well. So when you say
keto, it's not so much what we developed
is the glucose ketone index calculator
here at Boston College, which is going
to eventually become the tool, the
standard tool that everyone will be
using to determine whether or not they
are in the state of nutritional ketosis.
So
>> what is that called again?
>> It's called the GKI, the glucose ketone
index, which is a ratio of glucose to
ketone bodies in your blood. And right
now the meters are basically a finger
prick meter like Keto Mojo or Precision
Extra or these kinds of things. You can
buy them on Amazon, but you know, people
don't like to prick their finger uh to
get the results you get are super
accurate because you're measuring right
from the blood. Uh a lot of uh people
with diabetes use these kids with
epilepsy. But now the companies are
developing the continuous glucose ketone
monitors. So, you just put the patch on
your arm and we we're developing an app
so you can read it right off your arm,
right on your cell phone, and you'll
know any at any moment of the day what
what zone you're in with respect to your
physiological health. And there's
different zones like the deep red zone
which puts you at risk for diabetes,
dementia, cancer, cardiovascular
disease, and all these different
diseases that we are currently afflicted
in our society. chronic diseases. You
can have a blood sugar really high or a
GKI ratio that's really high and put you
in these in these. But if you want to
prevent chronic disease and you can get
down into the yellow zone, the orange
zone is some sort of transition zone.
But if you have a chronic disease like
type 2 diabetes like Jason Fong was
telling you or cancer or dementia, you
can get down into these low green zones
which are low GKI values where you're
taking in very little carbohydrate
diets. a lot of a lot of carnivore
diets, ex a lot of exercise, you can
stay in these low green zones and knock
the hell out of these chronic diseases.
You can either prevent them or you can
manage them quite effectively. And then
we bring in, you know, standards of care
that are currently used. And when you
want to manage cancer, you can still use
poisonous chemicals. The issue is you
can use much less of them.
>> So their toxicity becomes much less
important. Even the imunotherapies will
work best when the patients are in these
these zones. Right now the field is
throwing all this poisonous stuff at
people before they get into these
nutritional ketoic zones. But you see
the problem is right now no one has a
tool to tell you where what zone you're
in at any given time. So people say, "I
beat this crap ketogenic diet. It's
terrible." Well, what zone are you in? I
have no clue. Well, you you might be
eating a crap diet and you're not even
in the zone that you think you're in. So
without a tool, an accurate tool,
there's so much speculation and and
people sometimes don't even know where
where they are at any given time. So
we're going to change all that.
>> How far out are we on this tool? This
sounds amazing.
>> It's under development right now.
>> Okay.
>> So we're we're integrating all of the
different parts of this as we speak. But
we published the articles on it. We
showed how the GKI can be used and we
have published articles showing people
in low gleak GKIs with the fingerprint
method right now. But it's not it's we
haven't brought the AI to bear on this
yet. Artificial intelligence will make a
lot of these tools a lot more easy for
people to use and that's all in the
works.
>> I love that. That's so cool. I I think I
had talked to Dr. chaffy, you know, and
he's a very carnivore kind of guy. And
you know, it just like it feels like
everything's sort of like swinging this
way, but it also feels like the the
medical establishment is very slow to
react if not protective of the quote
unquote always. Can you speak to that a
little bit? Like why is the medical
industry so against, you know, a
ketogenic diet and, you know, uh
blocking glutamine? I think um I think
the term diet has always been a turnoff
for established medicine because it's so
variable. I mean it's so vague. What do
you mean a diet? What you eat may not be
the same as the other guy. And even if
two people eat the same thing, the
results may not be the same
physiologically. So diets have always
been ambiguous at best. The concept is
nutritional ketosis
>> which can be a quantitative. We can
measure we we can measure that. And what
you would need to get into nutritional
ketosis might not be the same as what I
would need or somebody else. It would
depend on your age, your gender, your
religion, your sex. All of these
different things would have to be
incorporated to know what a one person
would need to do to get into nutritional
ketosis. So that takes the term diet out
of it because it's a combination of of
yes, what you eat, but it's it's not a
standard like I'm eating a ketogenic
diet. You know, some guy can get in
there eating a carnivore or or fish only
or whatever. In fact, everybody should
start experimenting with their own body
to see what they what they could do to
get into nutritional ketosis and then
work it out for themselves so we can
take the ambiguity out of a lot a lot of
this. So, as far as the reaction to what
we're doing, you know, it's the science
is solid. So, you can't really attack
that. So, it has to be something other
than attacking the science. Oh, it's
hard to do. Well, not if it's done
right. Oh, this well a lot of listen
your ass is on the line here, friend.
You want to live your I mean, it's up to
you. You're in you're in charge of your
own destiny. If you if you don't want to
live on the planet, then that's your
that's your prerogative. But but but the
problem is people need to have the
directions and the tools to do this. And
right now, you're not getting any help
from the the traditional medical
establishment. When you go to the cancer
clinics like we have Dana Farber here
and MD Anderson in Texas and and you
have them Sloan Ketering and Mafitz you
know the all the Fred Hutch you can go
around the country and find all these
cancer centers. It's shocking to know
that most of the oncologists never heard
of the fact that glucose drives the
disregulated growth of the tumor. Right?
>> Can you believe it? The very people that
are supposed to be there to help you
have no clue, not all of them, many of
them have no clue about the biology or
biochemistry of the disease they're
trying to manage. And that's why we have
1,700 people a day dying. The very
people that are supposed to know don't
know. And now the the people in the in
the world are hearing about metabolic
therapy and they go into the clinics and
they get slapped down. They say, "Well,
there's no evidence to support this." I
said, "Well, did you read the paper?"
"No, we haven't read the paper." Well,
how can you say there's no evidence when
you don't even read the literature to
know there is evidence, you know? And of
course, the drug companies aren't really
enthusiastic about it. They they prefer
to push these very highly expensive
drugs that have just as much probability
of killing you as as helping you. But
they don't hide it. The drug companies
are very open. When you hear them
advertised at night on TV, Opivvo,
Katruda, this thing, that thing, they
spend more time telling you how the drug
is going to kill you than how it's going
to help you,
>> right? You're not hiding. It's
absolutely telling you this drug can
kill you. And yet people rather go to
the clinics and they get the drug that
could kill them and they don't they
never hear about metabolic therapy. We
can make those drugs less likely to kill
you if you're in nutritional ketosis.
Well, I I you see like I feel like, you
know, this knowledge is so, you know,
obvious, right? You know what I mean?
Everything needs a fuel, right? So, like
when you say like I I don't know much
about targeting glutamine, but I can
tell you like pretty easy how to get rid
of sugar in your diet. And maybe we can
talk about glutamine in a second, but I
think it's very inexpensive to do that,
right? To cut things out of your diet is
extremely inexpensive to do. I think
that one thing that I always wonder
about is like, you know, for me, I I
know this information. I've heard it
before. I'm super excited to get more
information from you about it from like,
you know, a true expert, not like, you
know, like some bro science thing that
you see on the internet. But I guess
what happens is like, you know, for me,
you know, like let's say I I talk to
somebody tomorrow and it's somebody I
went to high school with and they're
like, "Hey, I got cancer." And I'm like,
"Oh my gosh, I'm so sorry." Like it's
such a leap to go from, you know, like,
"Oh, you've got cancer." Well, did you
stop eating sugar and have you targeted
your glutamine? Like it's like you feel
like, you know, do I have the right to
say these kinds of things? So, what
would you give advice to people to help
spread the word about this without
feeling like they're I mean, again,
we're stepping on the doctor's toes, no
doubt, because the doctor's already got
them probably on chemo. You know what I
mean?
>> Yeah. Well, we're seeing the best
results. Again, I'm not a physician, so
I can't be telling anybody what to do or
what not to do because I'm not licensed
to do that. But what I am licensed to do
is spread knowledge based on the
publications that that we that we have
and talking to my colleagues that are
working in clinics using the new
knowledge that that we have. And
generally in many cases when a person is
first diagnoses diagnosed with cancer
regardless of what type of cancer it is,
they're generally some of them are
surprised. Some of them knew there was a
problem but they didn't know it was as
bad as it's been made out to be. When we
get those folks up front and we put them
on metabolic therapy right away, which
is like a zero carb diet for 10 days and
monitor their glucose ketone index as
they go through, their blood work is
often screwed up at the beginning.
They're at a at a metabolic homeostasis
in many different ways. And you can look
at the cholesterol and the
triglycerides, the micro and the macro
metabolites that you see. these whole
there's a lot of imbalances already
within the bloodstream which is
indicative of a of a state of metabolic
derangement. So we try to bring
everything back onto a more normal thing
a normal pla platform and you can do
that by uh but water only fasting is a
when you try to do it up front. I
mean it's don't tell me man people oh
yeah let's go out and stop eating you
know no no no no it doesn't but after
this after the third day you're you look
at your pets in a different way you know
this is this is very stressful on the
body but when you when you cut down
carbs you start easing your body into
this new condition and then jumping the
last step into water only fasting while
you're taking medications that are
specifically targeting glucose and
glutamine uh the pro it's not so much of
a problem and you start to see shrinkage
of the tumor, you start to feel a hell
of a lot better. You start to see all
these different changes. This is very
dramatically different than what we're
doing to the cancer patients today when
you start pouring chemo into them or
surgically mutilate them. We're we're
we're not we're not against surgical
mutilation, but we like to do it in in a
more restricted and refined way. If you
can take a tumor in a someone's colon or
on a breast or even in a lung anywhere
even in the brain and you shrink it down
you remove the blood vessels and you
takes this angry inflamed growth and
make it much less angry and inflamed
more indolent then the surgeon can come
in and feel with greater degree of
confidence that I might have even cured
this guy because I I I'm not worried
about bits and pieces of the tumor that
may have broken off or I didn't get it
all or one of these kinds of things.
Right? When you put patients on
metabolic therapy, the damn tumor
shrinks and the margins become sharp and
surgeons look and say, "Oh my god, I can
pluck this thing out. It's like a wart."
You know, but when you're dealing with
an angry beast up front, a lot of times
you don't cure the patient. You spread
it around
>> and then you come in with the with the
saturating doses of chemo or whatever
else they're going to give you with the
hope you're going to kill all the tumor
cells, but at the same time, you're
killing your normal cells. Your hair is
falling out, your gums are bleeding,
your microbiome, gut is blown to crap. I
mean, everything is like, what are you
doing to this poor? You're using
medieval knowledge bases to get rid of
something that's not that not as
complicated as people made it out to be.
I get frustrated because when we know
and understand the biology and
biochemistry of what's making a cell
grow in a disregulated way, knowing that
there is only two fuels driving this
disregulated growth and you're not
targeting the two fuels that are driving
the growth, you're doing all these other
crazy expensive stuff that puts patients
at risk for not only spreading the tumor
but for actually killing them,
>> right?
>> You know, this makes no sense at all.
But because I say this based on my years
of knowledge and looking at the way
we've been managing cancer here and
publishing paper after paper after paper
and having people in the clinics not
reading the papers and you say why you
continue to do this crazy stuff and it's
mostly tragic and the little kids with
brain tumors they just surgically
mutilate these kids they radiate and
poison them and even if they can stop
the cancer the poor kids are brain
damaged from all the stuff they've done.
I mean this is tragic of the the highest
level and yet we're allow we continue to
allow this and then they say you have to
check your genetic profile. The genes
have very little if anything to do with
cancer. So we've opened up a whole new
avenue of studying gene mutations in
cancer that are largely downstream and
irrelevant. The cancer cell can't grow
without glucose and glutamine. Why are
you worried about the genes? You kill
the tumor cell, you don't have to worry
about what kind of gene mutations they
had in there, right? So, so that so you
know they just awarded the Nobel Prize
today for economics. It's called
disruptive technology or creative
destruction where new new sciences, new
issues come along and eliminate old new
knowledge eliminates old ways of doing
things. Nothing could be more central
than the metabolic therapy for cancer.
It will eventually become the standard
of care because it works and it doesn't
hurt. You actually get better and
healthier when you do it. It's just a
matter of time for people to realize
that this will be the future. It works
because I've seen it and we just have to
have it in introduced into the major
clinics and because people are going to
want it once they realize and we publish
more and more papers of people that have
brain cancer and and pancreatic cancer
that are living five and six years when
they used to live like nine or 10
months. People are going to say, "I want
that. What is he doing? Can you get let
me do I want to do what that other guy
did." And they say, "Well, there's no
evidence to support that." And the
people in medical, the poor physicians
in medical school aren't trained.
They're trained to know that cancer is a
genetic disease. The National Cancer
Institute says cancer is a genetic
disease. NIH awards all these big
research grants to people hunting for
genes that are largely irrelevant. So we
get 1,700 people a day dying from stuff
that what these people don't have to be
dying. So the whole industry needs to be
turned upside down because it's not
working.
>> Yeah. Yeah. H how do how do uh people
target glutamine? How do you do that?
Because like you said, it's very
prolific in our bloodstream already,
right?
>> Yeah. It's already it's already at a
level that can satiate the desire for
any tumor cell to to have it. So we're
already it's the most abundant amino
acid in our body. So we have to use
drugs, but the drugs have to be done in
a strategic way. That's why we developed
the press pulse therapeutic strategy. It
was based it on on evolutionary biology.
It appears Arenss and West, these two
paleobiologists,
wanted to figure out what led to mass
extinctions of organisms on the planet
over the over the over the history of
our earth. There had been these mass
extinctions of organisms millennia ago.
And and they always found that it was
two things. You had a chronic stress on
the population and then you had this
unlikely it's like a meteor strike or
some series of volcanoes or whatever and
it would just wipe out everything. So I
took that concept and said, "Okay, well,
we can stress glucose down and we can we
can weaken the tumor cell by taking away
one of the two fuels and then because
glutamine is so essential for our health
that our gut needs glutamine, our immune
cells need glutamine, you know,
cells, we we need that molecule. We
can't go in there like a bull in a china
shop and take away all your glutamine
because if you kill cancer cells, you
won't have anybody picking up the
corpses. You got to have your immune
cells coming in and pick up the dead
cancer cells. So, you have to pulse. You
get you give a a dose of a glutamine
targeting drug for a short period of
time just while you got a choke hold on
the glucose uh with the diet with the
nutritional ketoic state and then you
come in with a with a pulse of a
glutamine targeting drug and now we find
is some of these parasite medications
are working uh well. We we got we have
data that Mbendendazol which is and and
fenbendazol these different different
drugs they target this metabolic pathway
the glutamine they target the glutamine
pathway in the cancer cell the same way
the parasite and the cancer cell require
a similar pathway to survive. So the
parasite medication kills the parasite
but it also will kill the cancer cell.
So so uh and it's elchipo right?
>> Yeah.
>> So nobody wants that. Oh, no. We can't
have that. So, uh, we have to figure a
way. So, we Scarelli the drugs. You
know, you remember Martin Scarelli, the
most hated man in America. There was a
big Oh, yeah. It's You can look look
back. He took the EpiPens and he he made
they jacked the price up several like
$800 a pen. Yeah.
>> That guy, you know, he he appeared on
Congress and told them they were all
fools at one of the congressional
hearings and he did it because he could.
Well, the pharmaceutical companies do
the same thing. They just don't boast
about it. So, so they take Mendazol,
which used to be 50 cents a tablet, now
you know it works on cancer. Let's make
it $300 a tablet. So, yeah, they do the
same despicable immoral. I call that
immoral. There's an immorality here that
seems to be in short supply in some of
the in some of these organizations. But,
you know, we can do that. And now we're
realizing more and more some of these
parasite medications. We have a paper
that's out in bioarchchives and we have
another one under review where we
combine. We know this drug six
deoxyorucine is very powerful glutamine
targeting drug but if you don't use it
right it can be toxic. It's like
anything. You just got to know how to
use the tools that you have. And once
you know the strategies and the concepts
you can build a very very effective
cancer management system by your
knowledge of what the tumor needs and
your knowledge of how to use drugs and
procedures in the right order and
sequence. So this is not you know this
is the revolution. It's a paradigm
change and uh problem is nobody seems to
be trained to know about this. You know,
they think it's a genetic disease. Oh,
we got to target this mutation or that
mutation. This is nonsense. It's not a
genetic disease. It's a metabolic
disease, right?
>> And once you know that, the outcome is
going to be so much better.
>> Yeah. I feel like medicine is like
diagnosis leads to prognosis, right? So,
if the diagnosis is misdiagnosed because
they think it's a genetic disease, then
the of course the prognosis isn't
matching up to, you know what I mean?
Well, they look at it the ultimate way
is you look at it under the microscope
in a biopsy and that's generally what
everybody falls back on like, oh, you
have a stage one, you have a stage two,
stage three, stage four. They've been
using this number system, you know, for
for over a hundred years now. I don't
know. So, you got a stage one now. They
have stage zeros, you know, where they
think there might be something there and
maybe there is, maybe there isn't, but
anyway, we'll remove breasts and we'll
poison them, do all this kind of crazy
stuff to some people. And then, oh, you
got a stage four. Well, what do you what
do you mean a state? What does that
mean? So, you look at you take the
tissue out of the person's body and you
look at it under a microscope and you
can see how many motic figures you see
and how crowded the cells are and you
know and this kind of thing and the
pathologist makes a a decision that's
then passed on to the surgeon or or the
oncologist to tell the patient you got
this kind of a disease stage three stage
four depending on how many how crowded
the cells look and how many motic
figures. The pro the problem which we've
been doing for decades is we take a a
biopsy of this thing which is a section
of the tumor and then you give it to the
pathologist and he can make the decision
relatively quickly. But you you stick a
you stick the beast with something that
can actually make it worse um and and
lead to the spread. I have dozens of
articles showing how biopsies from
breast, colon, liver, lung can spread
the tumor through your body
>> creating medicine. Why I I say don't do
anything. Let don't stick don't don't
poke the bear. Shrink it down. Make it
weak and then come in and take the whole
thing out. What are you sticking it for?
Just take the whole thing out after you
after you shrunk it down with metabolic
therapy. And then you know and then what
they say which has been done, oh this is
not an aggress and they look at it and
they go, "Oh, this this is not an
aggressive tumor." Yeah, because we
shrunk the hell out of it. We already
beat it down. I mean, if you stabbed it
at the beginning, you'd say, "Oh, this
is going to kill you." You know, but
it's everything you got to know about
the biology. You don't poke the bear,
just just take the food away from him.
He becomes very docile and you can cut
it out and then you can follow it up
with some uh non-invasive imaging. We've
got all these non-invasive imaging, cat
scan, PET scan, MRIs. You can you can
start looking at things before you have
to poke it. And if it goes away, I mean,
why would you want to poke it in the
first place?
>> Right?
>> So, we have all these things available.
We're just not using them in the cor in
the correct order, in the correct way.
But once the knowledge comes out, people
will start realizing what I am saying
and start doing things the right way.
>> Nice. Now, have you developed protocols?
Do you guys have, you know, do you guys
have protocols that people like if a
doctor's listening right now and they're
like, I want to learn more about this
like that they could they could get a
protocol from you?
>> Yes. Well, we we've just published a big
paper in biomedical central on
glyopblasto and do Dr. Thomas Durai who
works with me here in the lab. He's an
MD PhD and we put on over 20 scientists
and physicians, nutritionists,
dietician, all these people who were on
this paper together with us and this
paper starts the new society for
metabolic oncology. It's open access so
people can get it. It's a very
comprehensive treatment protocol for
glyopblasto which is a deadly brain
cancer. the cancer that that killed John
McCain and President Biden's son and
Senator Kennedy and many others died
from this type of the same kind of
tumor. So, we've developed a treatment
protocol for this tumor. But to be
honest with you, all the cancers that we
have looked at, whether it's a lung, a
colon, a breast, a bladder, they all
have the same problem. They need glucose
and glutamine and can't burn ketones or
fatty acids. So, this protocol, we we
did it for glyopblasto because they've
got nothing. We haven't made an advance
in managing glyopblasto in 100 years.
Can you believe it?
>> Crazy.
>> And and uh yeah, it's it's it's a tra
tragedy of the highest level. Mainly
because they irdiate the brain of these
poor folks, freeing up massive amounts
of glucose and glutamine in the micro
environment leading to the rapid demise
of the patients. So, so even the very
treatments that we're doing are
facilitating the rapid demise of the
patients. And then when you bring it to
their attention, they get angry rather
than saying, "Oh geez, thank you so much
for that valuable information." and they
get pissed off at you. So I said,
"What's going on here? Aren't you
interested in the patients? You've been
doing the same stupid thing for all
these years and nothing's changing and
you want to come along with something
that could work and you get angry about
it. I mean, give me a break." So, but
this is the crazy stuff. But the
protocol for glyopblasto could be used
for lung, colon, breast. Again, it's the
strategy of pulling the plug on the
fermentable fuels. You move in a little
exercise. You measure your GKI and then
you bring from a very dangerous
situation to a less dangerous, more
manageable situation where you can sit
back and think about the best new
strategies that we can apply to the
patient and the problem and gradually
degrade the tumor slowly. We're not ever
claiming that we can cure cancer. I hate
the word cure. Such an arrogant term.
We like to think of managing cancer
effectively allowing the patient to live
with a high quality of life whether or
not the tumor goes away because we have
this one guy Pablo Kelly who just passed
away last year. He lived 10 years with a
glyopblasto. He got married and had had
three children. He was never cured but
his tumor was put into an indolent
state. Um and you know glyopblasto
patients if you can get 15 months out of
somebody rather than 122 months. I mean
he died from a cerebral hemorrhage
following his last debulking surgery. So
he never died from the tumor. He just
died from the fourth surgical debulking.
So
>> and by debulking you mean they were just
doing a removal of tissue?
>> Yeah. So he was on metabolic therapy and
the tumor continued to grow and they
would cut it out and it would come back
slow and after several more years they'd
cut it out again. It was really funny
because at the beginning when he was
first diagnosed, they said he had an
inoperable tumor and if he didn't take a
large dose of chemo and radiation, he
would be dead in 12 months. And he
didn't take any radiation or chemo. And
then he just did metabolic therapy. And
after two and a half years, the tumor
that was supposedly inoperable became
operable
>> because it wasn't it was metastatic. It
wasn't attached to everything because
you guys had shrunk it down in defined
border.
>> Well, we shrunk it down, but we still
never got rid of it completely. So, we
never cured Pablo, but he lived 10
years. I mean, and he had and he didn't
die from the tumor, so we don't know how
long. And we talked to him a week before
he went in for the surgery. He was
laughing and we having a good time. I
was so sad when he died. He was he came
out of surgery doing fine. Thumbs up. I
get a picture talking up a storm. And
then that night he had a cerebral
hemorrhage and passed away. But but but
the issue here, he was managed. And so I
like to call cancer, we can manage
cancer, effectively manage cancer. Are
you so fortunate to be cured? I don't
know. You know, if you get cancer at 35
years old and you die at 98 years old
from a heart attack and the cancer never
came back, well, you can say he was
cured of cancer. That's for sure. But
but who knows? We never like to say the
term cure because after 10 years it
could come back. And and and we don't
know if it would come back as the
original type or come back from one of
the toxic treatments that the patient
received. It's not clear. So we like to
say successful management. we are
capable of successfully managing cancer
make changing its diagnosis from
extremely aggressive to indolent. So
that I am sure of. I never can say
whether you get cured or not. We don't
know nor can the field tell you you're
going to be cured. So um the standards
of care do not guarantee cure in any of
these situations either. So but we're
more I think we can do a hell of a lot
better job than what's currently being
done.
>> Yeah. No, I think that's I mean that
sounds amazing. You know, just
management alone, you know what I mean?
10 years on a glyopblasto. That's like
unheard of, right?
>> Uh well, it's not unheard of, but it
happens extremely rarely. It's so
uncommon,
>> you know, and and now we're getting in
in the Greek study where they did have
radiation to the brain. Uh because it's
almost like you're they got a lock a
lock hold on that standard of care. Even
in Egypt, we couldn't get them to not
irdiate the brain. But my colleagues in
Greek, they still irdiated the brain.
But they had the out of the out of the
18 people, six went on the metabolic
therapy, the calorierestricted
Mediterranean, and 12 didn't for various
reasons. And of the six that did
metabolic therapy, four survived three
years or longer, whereas only one out of
the 12 uh survived three years or
longer. So clearly huge difference. And
we didn't irdiate the brains on these
people. These guys, we would even have
better results. So we know what to do
and how to do it. It's just that nobody
is doing it. And they're they're
touching they're putting their big toe
into the water slowly on this whole
thing.
>> Now, how did Pablo hear about this
protocol and what you guys were doing?
>> Yeah. Well, he he talked to Andrew
Scarboro, another guy from England who's
still alive and he had a stage three
astroytoma
15 years ago and he's still going
strong. Uh so Pablo Kelly was from
Devon, England and Andrew was from
London and they Pablo just heard about
it. Pablo emailed me right after his
diagnosis and said, "I hear you got some
sort of a diet thing." And at that time,
we didn't know much how to We didn't
know how to target gluten. He never he
never took a glutamine targeting drug.
Can you believe it? He lived
>> all that time and no glutamine
targeting.
>> No, just on the metabolic therapy.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And he he learned a lot
about how to do this. Now, Andrew
Scarboro has been following his glucose
ketone index for all these years. And
now he even knows without even measuring
anymore. He knows what what state his
body is in just for the fact that he's
been doing it for so long. And he's
writing a couple of papers. So, so the
word of mouth gets out and people people
just want to say, "Can I try it?" And
the idea is they're living longer. Not
everybody, but the majority of people
who do it right. And if they follow our
new big treatment protocol, the
probability of them surviving longer is
much greater than it would be if they
didn't follow the protocol.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So now are there any clinics
that have sort of just taken this on as
like you know like is there like you
know it seems like when you hear about
cancer someone's like oh yeah my friend
flew to France and he was there for 4
weeks and he doesn't have cancer anymore
and so are there any clinics that have
like just taken this and said this is
going to be what we're going to do from
here on out.
>> Well it also no matter what country
you're in there they're that they got
that strangulation hold on you for what
you're supposed to do. It's I've never
seen anything so pervasive about poison
and radiation that they do everywhere
almost the same. But Istanbul, Turkey,
we're starting some clinics over there
where they're getting really really good
results. And the key thing is we have to
publish these. You see what I I publish
things. A lot of clinicians don't know
how to do this. They say, "Oh, I got
spectacular results. You can't believe
this patient. He should have been dead.
He's out now swimming in the
Mediterranean. He's doing this." Well,
that's all anecdotal show. Give me the
give me the data. Show me what you did.
Let me see the blood work. Let me let me
see the size of that's what we did with
Pablo. We published all this stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> And and let the clinicians see the
evidence for themselves what we're doing
here. And uh in in Istanbul now uh
they're using our metabolic therapy and
they're getting spectacular results with
pancreatic cancer. Many of these folks
are making five years and you know
advanced pancreatic cancer is usually a
death sentence. We're getting good
results and they want to work with me to
publish the papers. So I said, "Yeah,
well colle you gota you have to collect
the data on these people the way we
collect the data on our pre-clinical
studies. We have timelines. We have
blood measures. We have biopsy. We not
biopsy. We have well in in the
pre-clinical we can certainly do do all
this stuff, but we have we have solid
evidence for success. And you have to
present the hard most evidence to show
to make the most um uh um disbelieving
clinician a believer because he says,
"Well, you didn't do that. You didn't do
this. You didn't follow that. You didn't
follow this." We want to follow
everything, all the imaging, the PET
scan, the MRIs, the CAT scans, the blood
work, the size of the tumor, how the
patient feels, everything about this
condition to prove beyond a doubt that
this guy did in fact have a terminal
cancer and he's still alive.
>> So, um, and I want to say terminal
cancers should no longer be considered
terminal when treated with metabolic
therapy. We don't know what terminal
means. We're all terminal to some
extent. I mean, right? I mean, if you're
living, you're dying.
>> Yeah. You're supposed to be dead, but
you're alive. What does that mean? So,
so, but anyway, we're we're getting more
and more and I'm publishing these
papers. It's not easy to publish a human
report because there's so many
variables. The guy decided to go out and
have a party one night. Well, man, our
mice in the in the cages don't do that,
you know. So my one of my colleagues
said if we could take the cancer
patients and put them in the same kind
of cages that our mice are in, we'd have
these cases cancer managed very quickly.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> But you can't do that. You can't do
that. So but anyway, we're going to work
with these people in Istanbul and some
of the other countries. In India, we've
got a big group in India that are very
excited and Brazil. We got another group
and in China. We're starting to get
people all over the uh the world that
are starting to realize that the science
is solid. Why are we not doing anything
about this?
>> Right. Right. So, you know, one of the
reasons I started this podcast and the
reason it's called the healthy wealth
experience is because as a financial
adviser, I can tell you like if you're
not feeling well, if you're if you have
type 2 diabetes or you have you have
cancer, you have these things kind of
going on. It really doesn't matter how
much money you have. Like you you if
you're not feeling well, the only thing
you want to do is feel better. What are
some of the things that people could do
to reduce their risk of developing those
cancerous cells now knowing what you
know? Well, that's part of our new paper
that's under review for for chronic
diseases, which includes cancer. If you
you can't it's very very difficult to
get cancer when the mitochondria in your
cells are healthy because cancer is a
mitochondrial metabolic disorder. So,
you have to abuse your mitochondria in
some populations of cells in some organ
of your body in order to cause that cell
that group of cell that cell or group of
cells to start growing in a disregulated
way. So if the mitochondria are healthy
you and this has been seen in animals in
the wild, humans according living
according to their traditional ways
where cancer is extremely rare. These
people are always in a kind of a state
of some semi-nutritional ketosis which
makes the mitochondria super healthy
when you're burning ketones. Uh very
unlikely that you're going to disrupt
oxidative phosphorilation. when we
develop the when the when the GKI comes
out uh in this new format uh people will
know that if you keep a GKI below 20
your probability of of getting cancer is
going to be remote because you're
keeping your mitochondria healthy and
you'll have a quantitative measure to
know that right now we don't know that
and if you have your in a very yellow
good orange green zone and you go out
you binge at a party and whatever you
you'll see go up deep into the red but
then you can take action right away to
move out of that zone and back into the
the healthy zones which will obviously
prevent type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular
disease, cancer, dementia, all the
chronic diseases because they're all
based in one way or another on
mitochondrial dysfunction. So if you
keep your mitochondria healthy, you
don't get chronic diseases or cancer. So
right now we're living we're living in
an environment that puts us at risk for
all of these chronic diseases. We have
an obesity epidemic. We have a lack of
exercise. We're eating buttloads of
highly processed carbohydrates. We're
emotionally stressed out to the max.
We're locked into these computers and
cell phones. And you're doing everything
possible to to damage your mitochondria
health. And people need to know that.
And then there's no longer a mystery. I
can't tell you. I I mean, I'm seeing it
because I get thousands and thousands of
emails from these poor people. Cancer in
young people used to be mostly old
folks. Now you're getting people in
their late 20s and 30s that are getting
colon cancer and all this kind of stuff.
I said, "What's going on? I mean, we're
saturating our environment with all the
crap that's putting our mitochondria at
risk and we're not doing anything about
it."
>> Well, along those same lines, if you
look at childhood obesity, how high it
is now,
>> you know, uh that is the canary in the
coal mine.
>> Yeah.
>> If from a child he's morbidly obese,
he's on his way he or she is on his way
to
>> mitochondrial dysfunction.
>> Yeah. It's and it's terrible to say.
It's kind of like a a parental neglect
to put your child at risk for chronic
disease when he's so young. Um, and they
don't know. That's the problem. The
parents themselves lack knowledge about
the ser the gravity of what they're
looking at. You know, I mean, because
they're morbidly obese, the child should
be morbidly obese. Um, you know, this is
but they have to wake up because it what
it does it's stressing our health care
system to the max. Uh, you know, most of
the money in the health care is going to
manage chronic diseases. You know, and
RFK Jr., He comes out and says, "Oh,
we're going to do something about
chronic diseases. What are you going to
take a die out of a Froot Loop? Uh, give
me a break." You know, um, and he's all
digging holes with uh, vaccines and
autism by Tyler. I mean, this is
nonsense stuff, you know. Uh, you we
have the strategy to manage chronic
diseases and these guys are fumbling
around with things that are are not as
critical as cancer and and diabetes and
these other things,
>> heart disease. Don't ask me what's going
on down at what when they say cancer is
a genetic disease on their website. And
I know they don't know. They don't know
their ass from a hole in the ground.
>> Oh yeah.
Yeah. I definitely, you know, after
hearing this, it makes me, you know,
want to advocate for it even more and
get that in, you know, knowledge out to
people. Like what can people do to sort
of push the narrative? Obviously, I have
the show and that's way, you know, for
me to push it out
>> is to get it out to the, you know, all
the social media channels and things
like that, but like are there are there
things that we can do as a community
>> that could kind of get these because
again, like I feel like a lot of people
don't want to question a doctor
>> when when the doctors are just using the
best information that they have, which
means we want to give them better
information.
>> Yeah, I know. It's such a hard thing.
And I I I can tell you how many people
get slapped down when they go they get
all excited hearing what I say and then
they go into the oncologist and they get
slapped down or they or that we don't
want you as a patient anymore with those
kinds of questions. And it's so hard.
It's so it's so debilitating to hear
that oh eat whatever you want. Glucose
has nothing to do with anything. I mean
it's like oh man it's so tragic. And I I
feel bad for everybody. I feel bad for
the the lack of knowledge on the person
who's supposed to be treating you. And I
feel bad for the lack of knowledge on
the patient who's suffering with the
disease. And it's just such a such an
unnecess an unnecessary situation, but
but the the the the firewalls and the
stumbling the barriers to moving this
forward are so are so tall and so
numerous. It's just I think what you do
and what all these other podcast guys do
are are what you can do. You put the
word your word out there. And and the
interesting thing is that all of the
research that we do here is supported by
philanthropy and private foundations. We
don't get money from the government
because when when I write grants, they
always ask me what gene is involved and
there's no gene involved, man. It's it's
it's a metabolic problem. And they're
always asking you, "Oh, but you got to
detail the smallest amount of minutiae
mechanism." I said, "We have a way to
stop the death, the slaughter, and
you're worrying about a mechanism that
may have no relevance to the problem,
but that's the way scientists work." And
in some cases that's absolutely
essential, but we have a critical
situation here. People are dying by the
thousands and it's unnecessary. And and
the more I publish my my pre-clinical
studies and the more we investigate
synergies between diets and specific
non-toxic drugs or learning how to take
a previously toxic drug and make it
non-toxic because now you have a better
way of knowing how to use the tool. This
is going to advance the field and and
drop death rates. There's no question
about it.
>> Right.
>> So, we have Travis Kristofferson's
Foundation for Cancer Metabolic Therapy
supports our work. And people say, "I I
just want to support you. I don't care
if I make any money on it. I just think
I just think what you're doing is
important." And it is. And that's the
way we we keep publishing the papers in
top peer-reviewed journals. And
eventually, it's going to a tipping
point will come and a paradigm shift
will happen. It's just that it's not
there yet.
>> Yeah. No, that's a it's exciting though.
It's exciting to think that it could be
right around the corner. Um, and then
again, as a as a financial adviser, I'll
tell you if you're listening, um, and
you've got your beneficiary set up for
your trust, uh, why not name these guys
for a portion of your trust to help with
the research? Why not further research
where we know it's where we know it's
doing?
>> Yeah, we have we have people that have
given some parts of their estates to
Boston College
>> to support our cancer research here
through the directly through the
university. And then we c we have the
private foundations. I get guys who say,
"I have pancreatic cancer. You know,
here's $100,000. Can you help me?" But
it has to go through it has to go
through the university. I can't accept
any money personally from anybody. But
they're anxious because they know what
we have can keep them alive. And the
bottom line is how do you perfect this?
>> Well, I think so.
>> I think you mentioned like the NIH is
really not going to help with this
because or the American Cancer Society,
those are going to help with it because
they're all they're basically I don't I
don't know. I want to be real careful
how I say this. They're directly
influenced and sometimes monetarily
influenced by the by big pharma. So, and
if the way to cure cancer is not to take
a $16,000 a dose drug, then they would
have no interest in that.
>> Yeah. Well, that's true to some extent.
And it it happened in 1984 actually when
progress towards managing cancer was
stalling. And in 1984 at the NIH, they
made a decision to bring in the
pharmaceutical companies into the NIH
and academic academic cancer labs to
kind of uh expedite the the the race to
the to the solution which has now led to
us a even more disastrous situation
because we've replaced outcomes with
profitability. So revenue generation
becomes the most important thing rather
than patient outcome. and raising
raising money for cancer. Like this is
breast cancer awareness month. So you
see p pink pink ribbons everywhere and
people run they use the good nature of
people and they use them as mules to
raise money for these organizations with
no accountability where the money goes.
Raising money has become an end in
itself rather than a means to helping
cancer patients. And when you look at
the advisory board of a lot of these
organizations, they've all published
papers saying cancer is a genetic
disease or in one way or the other. So
you're really throwing good money after
bad. It's not helping anything. The
people who get help, most are those that
are running and swimming and biking for
the organizations, they get healthier
doing that.
>> Yeah.
>> But once you raise the money for
whatever they're doing with it, what we
do is get more dead cancer patients. So
clearly something a whole system needs
to be re-evaluated. It's broken. It's
broken in from top to bottom.
>> So if someone's I want to be respectful
of your time. We've been talking for
about an hour now and I could probably
do this for another six hours. This is
just so fascinating to me. But I guess
what I would say is like what could
someone listening to this, what could
they start today, let's say they don't
have cancer, they just want to be better
off and they want to lower risk of
cancer. What's something they could do
today to to lower their risk and say,
"Hey, from here on out, I'm never going
to do this or I'm always going to do
this or I'm going to try to like be
better at
>> Yeah. You know, it's it's it's hard. I
mean, I know what we have to do. You
know, you can do more exercise for sure.
I I think that's that's clear. walking.
It's just a even a little bit of
exercise is unbelievable in reducing
risk. But, you know, people are stuck in
cars and traffic. You ever go to the big
cities, man, I the traffic is killing
everybody. You know, books on tape. You
run home, kids are yelling, "Let's throw
something in the microwave. I'm not
going to go out in the backyard and chop
the head off a chicken and pluck them
and then cook them tonight." Um, you
know, and the and the healthy foods are
more expensive than the cheap foods. So
the cheap foods are so it's really
everything is like stacked against us
and trying to be and trying to be
healthy. But once I think once the GKI
information comes out people will have a
tool that they will be able to use and
there will be an app associated with
that so you can look directly on your
cell phone at any given time and then
you can be able to make choices as to
both prevention and management uh
whatever the situation uh might be and
that we're working as hard as we can and
we're doing it on a shoestring budget if
you can believe it. Some of our people
working, they're learning how to
program. They're learning they're
learning all of the skills needed to to
build this thing. And then we have to
work with some of the companies so that
they can massproduce these things so
people can have it. Yeah. So So there's
a lot of Listen, there's going to be a
monies to be made.
>> It's just that I don't know. I'm not one
of those. My job is to my job is to see
how many people I can keep alive.
>> Yeah.
>> That's that's that's rewarded in itself
only to prove that you knew what you
were talking about. That that's a bottom
line. You know, did you know what you
were talking? This guy giving you a load
of or does it really work? And
and the science tells us it will work
when it done correctly. And once that
happens and you start to see everybody
who would be in these terrible
situations in a less terrible situation,
then you know you hit the you you
achieve the you
>> Yeah. Well, I know that a lot of people,
you know, when it comes to, you know,
getting later on in life and stuff like
that, people start to focus on legacy,
you know, and things that they, you
know, can leave to the planet. And I
think it's without a shadow of a doubt
that you've left a tremendous legacy
that's going to change the face of the
planet. So, I thank you for that. I
won't be around to see it.
>> Well, maybe if more things like this
podcast can get out there, we can start
I'll be proud of the planet at that
time. I'll be part of the planet. But
>> I love it.
>> But either way, either way, it's going
to work because the science is so
strong. And don't forget, it's we're
standing on the shoulders of the giant
out of Warberg.
>> Yeah.
>> Who is Germany's number one biochemical
scientist. So, it's not like we just
cleared up a lot of the misinformation
and misunderstanding that he had. we've
just uh cleared it up and made it that
he was right, but he just didn't have
all the details that we now have. Right.
>> So, there's no reason now to to rocket
ship forward with this.
>> Well, the glutamine is a fuel. That's
really recent, right? I mean, you just
you just came out with that published.
>> Well, no, no, actually, actually, that's
not all the oncologists, well, academic
onc academic scientists in oncology know
glutamine is a major fuel, but they all
thought it was respired. Our new
discovery was that it's fermented. It's
that you can it's generating energy
without oxygen. That's the new thing.
That's a that's a mechanistic new
revelation. It's fermented. And we work
with the number one scientists on that
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation which is a fermentation
mechanism inside the organel that
generates energy through oxidative
phosphorilation. That's what Warberg did
not know about. Nor does the field of
science. So we everybody knew glutamine
was involved but they just didn't know
the mechanism by which it was involved.
So, so now we know what it's doing and
we know how to stop it and now you
should be doing that.
>> That's great. Okay. So, I have to ask,
how is your diet?
>> Well, you know, I try to skip as many
breakfasts and get as much exercise. I'm
very fortunate to have a a a palatial
gym that we now bill for our
undergraduates here at the universities.
You can't Your university is dictated
more about the size of your gym and your
athletic facilities than it is about the
size of your library, you know. So, oh,
four stories of just every kind of a
exercise machine and swimming and
everything which is puts me in a good
position because I just walk out the
door and just over on the other side
there is this beautiful gym. Uh, so but
I know so many folks in our society are
stretched and they don't have that that
capability. But there are other things
that you can do and a lot of it is
pointed out in our big protocol paper on
the glyopblasto things that people can
do just small things that can put them
on the right path to keeping themselves
alive longer with with less chronic
disease.
>> Where can we get a copy of that paper?
>> It's open access uh so which means that
anybody with a computer can download it.
It's it's the protocol treatment
protocol for glyobblasto by Dr. Thomas
Durai Dur AJ myself I'm the last author
on the paper but we have 20 more 20 or
so authors on this paper from all over
the world all corners of the earth are
on this paper but it's a very detailed
elaborate yes and what we're learning is
that I always said there's some level of
scientific literacy essential to knowing
what we're talking about but now with AI
all these terms and things like that you
can just throw them into the the Google
AI and they come right they explain
everything to you right
>> so we can use AI to our advantage to
help us wade through what this guy is
saying in this paper. My lectures are
less technical, unless of course I'm
giving it to a professional technical
audience, at which time I can go to the
le the greatest depths that they need to
know. But the guy on the street, all he
wants to know is is how do I do this?
>> Right?
>> What should I eat?
>> Right? You know, and the answer is,
well, once the tool comes out, you can
do it now. You'd have to go on and buy a
Keto Mojo. Now the tariffs made the damn
Keto Mojo. You can't get them. So it's
hard to get. We can just prick your
finger. Maybe Precision Extra might have
one from Abbott Labs, but you can
measure your own Gat. We published a
paper already on that on the glucose
ketone index. You know, we did the
calculations for everybody, but you like
people like to just push a button and
have the number appear right in their
face. So, that's another convenience
that they've that they've worked on. So,
but the things are there. They're just a
little bit less convenient now. And
we're trying to bring the convenience to
everybody much easier.
>> Yeah. Well, I will find that artic I'll
find that publication and I'll make sure
I link to it in the description.
>> I can send it to you. I can send it to
you. And the press pulse therapy, I can
send that to you concept. Yeah, I'll
I'll send them and I'll even send you
our new paper uh which is pretty heavy
deep into the science just for anybody
that might be interested in going to the
depths of the problem,
>> right?
>> You know, the new it's called the uh the
Warberg hypothesis and the emergence of
the mitochondrial metabolic theory of
cancer. uh which tells the field, you
know, where the mistakes were made and
the science supporting everything that
I'm talking about here.
>> I love that. I love it so much. Now, if
someone wants to get a hold of you,
what's the easiest way to get a hold of
you? And
>> well, they usually email me if if I
usually send them a kit of information.
I I give them a very detailed kit of
information and names of people who they
can because I can't treat anybody. I
can't tell anybody what to do, but I
give them knowledge and the only thing
we ask is that they make a donation to
one of the foundations because I give
them I give the information free. I
don't charge anything for this
information, you know. So, and then some
people do make nice donations and a lot
of people don't. Some people don't have
any money, but that's okay. Whatever
whatever helps them out is fine, you
know. The goal is how long or how much
longer can I get I get emails back from
guys, you know, I give them this kit of
information. I don't know. I don't hear
from them. And then two years later or
something, they immediate. I said, "Oh,
you're still alive." I said, "That's
good news. You're still alive." I said,
"You would have been dead."
>> I love that.
>> You know, it's always a surprise to hear
somebody that has stage four cancer
who's still alive years after they were
supposed to be dead.
>> Yeah. I love that's so great. Dr. Steve
Freed, I really appreciate your time.
And as soon as you come out with the
continuous ketone monitor, I want to be
one of the first people to try it. I
want to be on that thing.
We're all excited about that ourselves.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> All right, Chris. Listen, I'll let you
go. Thank you for the interview and all
the all the best. And I'll send you
those papers.
>> Perfect. I appreciate your time. Thank
you so much.
Bring it high.